---
layout: post
title: Habits
date: 2013-10-18
---

Habits, as their name implies, become entrenched.

This evening, when I opened the cheese box, I found myself momentarily anticipating that Rusty would come trotting into the kitchen and wait for the little offering of cheese that I usually gave him.

This was just one of many examples of Rusty's habits that we became thoroughly used to.

There were the times that Rusty was home alone and when I drove into the driveway, he would appear, peaking through one of the bedroom blinds. Having checked that it was me, he would then disappear and be waiting for me by the time I had the key in the lock, opening the front door. Once I was inside and he had given me an obligatory sniff, he would race out to the back yard and run around excitedly before returning inside.

Or there were evenings when we were in the lounge room watching TV, Rusty would often make his presence known in the room. He would sit on the floor in front of one of the lounges and, in his own endearing way, ask if it was ok to jump next to one of us. Often there was a brief conversation as one of us would tell him to wait while we arranged one of the covers that he was allowed to sit on. Then we would beckon him up and he would make himself comfortable, often on a lap.

Later in the evenings, when I adjourned to the kitchen at supper-time, Rusty was quick to recognise that this was his chance to be fed some milk. Occasionally he would be in Rosie's bedroom and the door leading to the kitchen was closed. Rusty would knock to be let in!

Yes, Rusty was certainly a creature of habit.

Each reminder that Rusty is not repeating one of the habits that we have come to expect is part of the gradual realisation that he is no longer with us. I guess it will take time to adjust. For now the memories are vivid.